---
date: "2017-09-09T19:43:23+10:00"
title: My new blog
tags: [about, new, static website]
draft: true
---

Hello everyone!

My name's Mathieu Paturel - `@math2001` - and I love coding. I'm French (from
Provence, if you know where that is), but my family and I moved 2 years ago to
Australia so that we could learn to speak fluently English (without this
disgusting accent :smile:).<!--more-->

### How did I discovered coding

It all started with the basic "programming language" (notice the quotes
:smile:). My farther taught me the very basic of programming (and it was pretty
much all you could do with this language I'd :laughing:). The farthest I went
with this is making a little program that would ask test you on the tables of
multiplications.

It was interesting, but honestly, it wasn't too fun. The fun started when my
uncle showed my Python (:heart:). We made a game with `pygame`. I said
<q>We</q>, but it was more "he". He was typing, I was following along, thinking
I was understanding most of it.

But when he said:

> All right, your turn now!

I realized I didn't remember much, I had no idea what to do (to make a simple
program that would draw lines around the corners of the screens)...

Then, we moved to Australia. My farther had to look for a job, and it pretty
hard. It took him 8 month. During this time, we couldn't go to the Australian
school, since because we were just visitors, the cost was pretty high (something
like $500 per week and per children, which is $1500 per week). We were living on
our savings, so we stayed at home, only doing remote French school (called CNED,
really bad...). It was only partial, since we were meant to go the Australian
school too. So, it would took us around half a day every day. The rest was free
time.

So, since I didn't what to do, I started looking at Python again, making some
little games.

Of course, I had some issues, some thing I didn't know how to do. So, what did I
do? Looked it up on the internet. The problem was that it was pretty hard, since
we had to go to the library to get a miserably slow connection.

All I was aware of was the `help` function of python. That's it. I had no idea
about the Python documentation, or any other resources. All I could do was look
at the programs my uncle left me, and kind of "guess". Lucky I was using Python
and not JavaScript or PHP :smile:.

And one website's forum kept coming up:
[openclassrooms.com](https://openclassrooms.com). It's a French one (although
their now making some courses in English). I discovered that they had a course
about `pygame` and python. I read them, and kept making some little games.

One day, my uncle send me an email saying that I should look at `flask` to make
some little websites. Luckily, they had a course about this on OpenClassrooms.
But one of the requirement was to know `html`, which I didn't. Of course, they
had a course about it. I read it, started loving web dev, forgot Flask and
followed the author with the course he recommended next: PHP and MySql.

While still making some little games with Python, some little websites with PHP,
I learned git (with a course on OpenClassrooms of course). This was a pretty big
step. It didn't appear like it _straight away_, but when I look back, I'm pretty
sure it is, and for one reason:

[GitHub][]

It took me a while to figure out the basics, though.

I started making some plugins for Sublime Text. I was much more comfortable with
python. My first plugin was a kind of a failure, I haven't deleted
[the repo][snippetlister] just for fun.

The plugin was working, but when I send the PR to get on package control, I
didn't understand the maintainer's response (I really didn't speak properly
English at the time). I thought he rejected the PR I read the answer from the
email notification, I didn't understood that I could edit the code and edit it,
I didn't really get concept of Pull Request (I just followed the step by step
guide in the Package Control's documentation). I never answered anything back (I
don't even remember seeing the ping from the maintainer). The result being that
the PR was closed. :disappointed:

But anyway... I made some other plugins later on, I had a better understanding
of GitHub, and some of [my plugins][] are now on Package Control.

You might be wondering why this is relevant. Well, my Sublime Text plugins were
the first repository I shared with other people.

It's from here that I started to have a decent workflow, read the
documentations, learn some new cool stuff.

So, now, here I am. I created this new blog to share what I know.

Hopefully you'll enjoy the content!

[snippetlister]: https://github.com/math2001/snippet-lister
[my plugins]: https://packagecontrol.io/browse/authors/math2001
[github]: https://github.com
